Sergo Cusinella: Hello and welcome.
My name is Sergio Cusinella and I work
Software Engineer at Android Team at Truecaller.
Today I'll talk about how to create apps
For fast-growing markets.
But before this, let me brief introduction
About Truecaller.
It is a company that started in Stockholm, Sweden.
We have three main products:
Truecaller - an application
Lets you know your caller in real time,
Even if you do not have his number in your phone book.
It also prohibits calls from the most important hackers in your area,
It always gives you access to
Correct information about people and businesses
When you need it.
Truedialer - It's a phone app
Enrich your call history with photos and contacts
When you do not have it.
It also lets you know
The person you plan to contact before
Make a call if its number is not in a book
your phone.
Finally, Truemessenger - it's a messaging application
Lets you know the sender
Messages in real time.
Spam is also automatically blocked and filtered
So that the inbox remains safe and clean.
Now, we return to the subject of talk,
I will present you a short introduction on emerging markets
Then I talk about how to create great experiences for them
In the end, I will talk about the extent to which the definition of "free"
In these places.
When companies want
Launch new products, they usually
Think of Western markets like North America and West
Europe
These areas include a large number of potential users.
In fact, reached the end of 2014
The number of smartphone users in the United States is 163 million
And 197 million in Western Europe.
As well as the growing number
But at a fairly moderate pace.
While underestimating the latent power
Which can all other markets
Influence on the distribution of products.
As we see here, by the end of 2014,
Smartphone users in China reached 522 million
In India 270 million and in the Middle East North Africa 122 million.
We should also remember that second billion
Of internet users, are located in these areas.
So these areas will undoubtedly continue to grow exponentially
In the number of users.
Creating great products is very easy
With our new cutting-edge devices
Enjoy unlimited data plans on very fast LTE networks.
We sometimes forget
What is the norm in emerging markets?
When it comes to hardware, it's usually equipped with dual SIM cards,
The screens are not too big,
The accuracy degrees are not very high,
Even the new hardware, limited in terms of CPU and memory - well
Relatively limited.
The purchase of new smartphones is of course not available to everyone
So there are a lot of users who actually buy
Used equipment is a central processing unit and a GPU
More limited.
The devices do not work
With the latest version of Android.
And may not download any updates to it.
When talking about data, they are mostly prepaid plans,
Not too cheap,
Users do not use the Internet
Except when absolutely necessary.
If we look at smart phones as a
The only entrance to the Internet,
It will show how careful data is used.
In the end we talk about networks - it's very slow.
3G networks are becoming mainstream,
But it is crowded.
Even Wi-Fi networks are slow because they are based on slow landline connections
.
They are not always available.
How do we create a great experience for these markets?
Well, as I mentioned we can not rely on applications that need continuous communication
Internet access.
That means we need to be empowered
Users are able to open the application and use it partially
At least while offline.
Which means we must create some sort of cache layer.
But as I mentioned, the hardware memory is limited.
So when we do this, of course
We have to bear in mind the proportionality between
Cache and available memory
the device.
It is best to collect mdpi and ldpi resources.
The accuracy of xxx-hdpi may not be essential for these markets.
Certainly, we must bear in mind the size of the download of images,
Given that this controls the application's use of the data.
So we should try downloading thumbnails and preview images
And delay the download of images
As full as possible.
When doing this, we actually need to
Check the portability
Full images on the device
Where the size may be larger than the device.
Of course, we do not forget to change the image size -
Its execution on the server does not cost a lot of money,
So we do not have to implement it on devices
Especially when the CPU and GPU are limited.
Most importantly, because devices are not strong enough,
We must absolutely
Taking into account the animation and the speed of transport
Which gives meaning to the application
An important aspect of it.
It is best to end up offering
The interface is simple but rather smooth
The interface is beautiful but slow.
Finally, the translation comes - we must certainly
Strive to offer a local language experience
So invest in translation.
We now turn to the definition of "free" -
Looking at these three applications,
We note that it is possible to download them all free of charge
Play Store.
But what users are looking for in emerging markets as well
Is the application size,
For example, when a user is seen in India
To this application,
Find it to download it via Caller
It costs about 2 euros, while downloading
LinkedIn costs him 4 times this.
As you mentioned, users use pre-paid data plans,
So the size of the application is a very important factor.
Thus, sizes are essential.
We must do everything possible
Make sure the application is as small as possible.
Translations have a great impact on experience,
But at the same time occupy a certain amount of space,
This means that we must add translation
Which are of real importance for business activity only,
And ensure that all translations are removed
Compatible,
They may add libraries we use.
Of course, we must also remove all unused resources.
There are some tools that can help us in this
Such as string and lint resources.
We must use light coloring
And color filtering so that we can reuse the symbols.
We definitely need to improve photos and maybe
Try other image formats.
Use ProGuard to compress the application
As much as possible.
Finally, third-party libraries - it's great
It allows us not to repeat
Circle each time.
But at the same time we may occupy a certain amount of space,
So we must watch them.
It's also good to remember that you can import Google Play services
In modular form,
We should take advantage of this.
I hope this presentation
Has given you a general idea of ​​how to improve
Your products for emerging markets,
If you have not done this before,
They began to think about it.
Thank you so much.
[clap]
[Music playing]